Okay, we are
live.
Hi, today is going to
be bit of an extravaganza.
We are going to go down a large rabbit
hole but only for one
day. And uh the goal is to see if
generally anything in
modelbased just works and is easy or if
it seems like that's just not the
case. Uh there are a couple papers that
I definitely
want to look
at. This is sketchy. This should not
have
broken. We are going to check uh the
nighttime runs though, the runs from
last night real quick.
one.
Interesting. Well, we will see how this
turns out. Uh I don't like this
intersection but it is
training. Okay, that's all we had to
check. Just make sure that it has not
catastrophically
failed. Train curves are generally
fine. So a few papers I want to start
with. I haven't looked at this in a long
time.
I do not like this paper one bit
because well half of it's wrong but we
will look at the core world
model. I think these are probably the
two that we should look
Okay, we'll start with this. Uh, it's
been several years since I've read
paper. Let me see how they do their
world
How mu z uses its model to
plan given previous hidden
states and a candidate
action. The dynamics G provides an
immediate reward R and a new hidden
state SK.
Policy and value are computed from the
hidden states by predicting a function
f. The initial hidden state s0 is
obtained by passing the past observation
into a representation function h.
Okay, so this could just be
multiple heads on the same network,
right? You have your LSTM or
whatever producing
states. You predict
Here's their
algorithm. Predictions are made each
time step
t for k 0 to upper
case k. Is that okay?
I think it is by model mu of
theta with
[Music]
parameters theta conditioned on past
observations. What's on the doc? Is it
the Atari twoe paper? No, that's awful.
Uh that
is off policy. We're going to look at
modelbased stuff today. I think is going
to be more promising if you want to use
a crap ton of compute to do something.
Um, I think that the off policy stuff is
kind of just not the way to do it
compared to
this. So, we're going to try we're
basically going to try to see if
anything model based makes sense today
and like immediately
helps. I the ideal is to
uh let me just sort of outline my goal
for today. I would like puffer lip to be
to have a core algorithm that can be
very very fast if you have infinite
data, but also you can kind of just turn
the knob and use more compute on the
same data. And the thing that in my mind
makes the most sense for that is a
certain form of world model based
specifically something like this that's
kind of similar to learn search.
Um compression and search are the two
things that we know scale. So this is
kind of
both. The model predicts three future
quantities. Okay. The policy
the value
function and the immediate
reward. Internally at each time step,
the model is
represented. It's got to predict next
obs, doesn't it? Models represented by
the combination of a representation
function, a dynamics function, and a
prediction function. the dynamic
function that computes at each
hypothetical step K an immediate reward
in an internal state S. Okay, so this is
going to
predict this predicts next state as
well, which is what we'd
expect. But it predicts internal state,
not ops, which is very
nice. Unlike traditional approaches to
modelbased RL, this internal state SK
has no semantics of environment state
attached to it. It is simply the hidden
state of the overall
model and its sole purpose is to
accurately predict relevant future
quantities, policy, value, and reward.
Okay, in this paper dynamics functions
represented
deterministically prediction function f
computes the policy and value function
from internal
states
sk akin to the joint policy and value
network of alpha
zero. A representation function h theta
initialized the root state s0 by
encoding past observations.
This has no spec special semantics
beyond its support for future
predictions. Given such a model, it is
possible to search over hypothetical
future trajectories A1 through a K given
past observations 01 through
OT. For example, a naive search could
simply select the kstep action sequence
that maximizes minimum value function.
Yes.
More generally, we may apply any MDP
planning algorithm to the internal
rewards in state space induced by the
dynamics
function. Specifically, we use an MCTS
algorithm similar to alpha zero search
generalized to allow for single agent
domains and intermediate rewards.
All parameters of the model are trained
jointly to accurately match the policy
value and reward
predictions for every hypothetical step
K to three corresponding
targets observed after K actual time
steps have elapsed.
uh you only get to train this on the
action that you actually take,
fine. Value targets are generated by
playing out the game or MTP using the
search policy. Unlike Alphazere, we
allow for long episodes with discounting
and intermediate rewards by computing
endstep return that bootstrapped end
steps into the future from search
value. Yeah. Okay. I remember really
liking this paper and I still really
like this paper. This is just like a
very clean way of doing
uh MCTS without access to
dynamics. And we literally have go to
try this on if we wanted
to. And then this does ludicrously well
on
sense. Okay, so I see how this works.
Uh,
Dreamer only claims to be better
[Music]
on. This claims to be better on Atari
and it claims to be better
on
Minecraft, but this algorithm is a total
[ __ ] mess.
So yeah, this is a full encoder decoder.
Is there any difference between this and
MU zero except for the fact that they
use an RSSM and then they use
um uh they predict output ops instead of
hidden states.
saw one of the
papers use the world mile small
trajectories tens of steps into the
future. Uh I mean it depends on the
environment whether you can do that
right but like you absolutely should be
able to do that with something like
go. It's like very obviously
deterministic.
sides? Have some search algorithm to
pick and refine steps instead of just an
action
policy. So my understanding of this and
I I just have skimmed this and I read
this years ago, right? is that you uh
you're training a world model which is
in this case you're just predicting the
next hidden hidden state dynamics and
then from that you're predicting reward
action
uh reward and action
right and then you run MCTS over that in
order to predict the trajectory that you
actually take and then you backrop on
that we use it for continuous
control so this is fully General you can
use this on
any on any problem
type. Um I don't know how far forward
you can prop on continuous control. The
thing with tens of steps in continuous
control is that can actually be a very
small window of time,
right? Like 10 steps and go is actually
a lot of stuff happens. 10 steps of
robotics is not very much happened.
equivalents. Okay. They have the
architecture
here. They have 16 residual blocks.
That's got to be way smaller than 200
million parameters,
right? Quonization, it was a couple of
seconds.
Okay. Even if they picked a trajectory,
they picked the first
action and rinse and repeat. figure out
a new trajectory after one step. Yes.
Yeah, that's what you would expect. So,
the thing is then you're only really
training
on is are they training on the whole
trajectory? They're not then, right?
You're really only you only get to train
on the data that you actually
see, which is the action that you
actually take, right?
So, you generate a whole bunch of these
rollouts, but you only get to
actually see the uh the result of one
action.
then learn on a regular roll. That's
normal. Do replays. So, that seems very
clean to me.
I think the dreamer is kind of just they
did the same thing except they do
uh they do a decoder for the
actual like they decode and predict the
full image or whatever instead of
predicting state which is actually a bad
thing because it makes it really
obnoxious to do uh partially observed
state type environments because like you
have to write an obnoxious inverse
encoder to decode
Um and then they have like RSSM or
whatever. This is not like that
meaningfully different from Uzero,
right? I also don't like autoenccoders
for that. Yeah, it's a real pain in
RL.
Um let's ask
Brock just in case. Sometimes it catches
things usually not. M0 I've missed. I'm
watch M0 was the good one. I think I
remember I like that paper reading and I
don't I don't like most of the world
model papers. Also, Dreamer V3 is like
half wrong.
MCTS. Oh, yeah. Okay. I remember. So,
they train on imagined rollouts. Right.
Right. Right. Right. There's a big
difference here.
Um, yeah, it's just that in practice the
inverse world models are really
obnoxious to define, right?
Okay. So I think that I see
mostly how this work. I think it makes
sense to spend a little bit more time
making sure I understand the details
fully here.
So what we would do here, we would add
like some additional network head that
probably actually has to have a couple
layers on it, right? Um and that will
predict
right? Hang on. How do we roll this
thing
forward reasonably?
It has to be conditioned on the actions,
right?
They just train everything on imagined
roll outs.
See, the thing that's sketchy about this
paper, right, is it depends on all these
tricks that don't act we like we know
don't actually work.
What about wall time? So, the wall time
of this model is evidently actually
quite good. The thing that's sketchy
about this is so this goes up to a 200
mil perm model.
Um, and it's like the Perf is very
highly dependent on all these tricks,
like half of the Perf, but these tricks
are absolute [ __ ] like we've tested
them. We have a Nerx paper on it.
They're
[ __ ] So, it's a very like
sketchy thing to get to
work. It's also kind of like an all-in
algorithm in the sense that like when
you're actually training on the world
model itself, it has to be really good.
Um, I think that M0 is a better fit for
what we're looking for at the moment,
which is like I think with this you can
kind of just do your on policy learning
the way that you normally do, right? And
then like you can scale up
uh you can scale up if you want to like
scale up compute to do more search to
get better
data. This also gives you test time
scaling for free, doesn't it? Yeah, this
gives you test time scaling for
free, which you would think would mean
you'd also be able to use a much smaller
model. And like with these residual
blocks, it seems like this would be
smaller as well.
Okay, let me make sure I actually figure
out how I can how this is implemented.
Um, there's the
sense. I just want something where we
can crank up compute if we want,
right? Without screwing up our base
algorithm. So, this seems like we can
just train this auxiliary
thing and then use that to crank compute
when we want to.
I wish they had an algorithm block on
this.
Let me see if I can draw this out and
then we can try to maybe implement
B1. So they also they predict reward now
directly. So this is going to get R1 I
guess.
Or do we not need to? Hang
on. We need some way to encode. I think
you need to encode both the action and
the state,
right? I think it's like action state
pair is got to be the input. Let's see
where they describe this. Oh, they have
this as well.
on. I think it's just you add an extra
model, right?
actions? Okay, so unrolling this is
actually kind of tricky, right?
thing. Model just models aspects that
are important to agent decisions.
How good is the current
position? What action to take? Reward.
How good was the last
action? But then it needs the state
model, right?
function. Which does take the action.
Okay.
So, the only obnoxious thing about this,
right,
is this has to be an LSTM cell, not an
LSTM, I believe.
This scales up inference time compute
doesn't it because this is you do this
in the data collection phase. I know I
had asked you this question last night
regard regarding last time first as how
did you get comfortable with Linux daily
coming from
Windows if I recall I I've used Linux
forever WSL2 is basically native Linux
um it's just required if you do anything
if you're doing anything in scientific
computing or really even programming in
general you're just using Linux and
you're really just uh you're really just
like limiting yourself
otherwise like outside of net like uh
Windows is just not a serious
development
environment and game engines. I guess
that's about it.
So if we do this model
as if we do this as an LSTM state,
right? Then we can write a pretty basic
piece of
OBS? Could be
either. Uh so you do this and then this
will produce
O. Oh, I guess this is what this is
supposed to be. This is like E1 or
whatever. And like you look right here,
this is
E1, right? And then this is going to
produce
right? And this will probably also
produce some other
stuff. No, it just produces E2, I
guess. But then what about S?
Thank you for response. Contemplating
full Linux
desktop. You don't have to immediately
like go buy a new machine or something.
You can dual boot, which is admittedly a
bit of a pain in the ass, but it works.
Uh if you're on Windows, just use WSL
because it's basically native Linux.
It's the same dev environment and
everything. It's like a really good
option. Um Mac, a lot of people in
industry use Mac. I frankly hate it, but
it's like closer because it's a Unix
environment. Not everything works the
same and there's a bunch of setup pain
in the ass.
Um I myself I have native Linux machines
cuz it's just easier.
The other thing that you can do, which
is another thing people will do, is
they'll get themselves like a Linux box
that they'll just SSH into or whatever
to use for development, and then they'll
access it from whatever they prefer to
reasonable. Okay. Okay. So, I think that
this wasn't intended to be for an
LSTMbased model,
right?
Because you'd also have to predict this
state, don't
you? Or do you not have to? You have to
predict the input state to this thing,
don't you? Because if I roll this out,
yeah, I can use this state.
But then if I roll it out again, yeah,
this state is now
stale. So I have to predict the state as
Well, this thing is actually pretty easy
to train, right? Because
like you just train this on the actions
of the
trajectory that you actually took, the
embeddings of the trajectory that you
just took, right?
And then the next one, the next like
embedding. So that's not bad. This thing
should be pretty easy to set up training
for.
You kind of want to give this the state
as well, don't you?
Oh, maybe what you do is you take these
two and you put these in
here and then this is here and then E2
is out. Yeah. Okay. So, it's actually if
I revise this then what it should look
like is this. It's just an LSTM cell.
It takes this is
E1
S1 and then this
is E1 or E2.
too.
Now, can you train this like this
though?
I mean, this has to go into the main
network now, right? This
S1 because then you have to put
E2 and S1 into your
Maybe maybe that's fine.
It should learn the same
representation. Wait a second. So if
you're if this is going to
thing. Can this not just be one
network? What if I just put like
a Z A1 into these and then this is going
to predict
E1? Does that just
work? because
then I can use E1 instead of
O as many times as I
want, right? And it's a good idea to
have the action in the input anyways. I
was going to have to solve that
problem. So then this literally just
adds one head to the
output and then that lets you roll the
model forward, right?
And then the only thing that you have to
do is you train this embedding versus
this
embedding. This also has to predict R
now, right?
because you have to you need that to
like to know which one to pick. But I
think that actually could be pretty
simple. I don't even think you have to
add like an extra network, right? You
just have to
predict E1 off of this like a two-layer
MLP.
work. So, uh they said that there was a
thing where they use more train time
compute though, not just more inference
compute, right?
Let me read this more carefully. I'm
just going to go through this out loud.
We now describe mu0 algorithm in more
detail. Predictions are made at each
time step t k0 to k by a model mu of pi
theta with parameters theta condition on
past observations 01 through o and for k
greater than zero on future actions a t
+ 1 through a t plus k. The model
predicts three future quantities. The
policy
pi of a t + k + 1 conditioned on 01
through
o comma a t + 1 through a t +
k. The value functions vt k which is
equal to the expectation of some
discounted return. This is just
discounted
return and the immediate reward rtk= mu
tk plus uh t plus
k where u is the true observed
reward as a policy used to select real
actions and this gamma is a discount
factor. It's got to be
um internally at each time step the
model is represented by the combination
of a representation function, a dynamics
function and a prediction function. The
dynamics function g of theta is a
recurrent
process
represented.
Okay. R
k= g theta s k - a K. Uh that computes
at each hypothetical step K an immediate
reward and an internal state
SK. Does this mean it's a separate
dynamics? Like it's a
separate recurrent process.
It mirrors the structure of an MDP model
that computes the expected reward and
state transitions for a given state in
action. However, unlike traditional
approaches to model based RL, this
internal state SK has no semantics of
environment state attached to it. It is
simply the hidden state of the overall
model and its sole purpose is to
accurately predict relevant future
quantities, policies, values, and
rewards.
In this paper, the dynamics function is
represented
deterministically. The extension to
stoastic transitions is left for future
work. A prediction function f theta
computes the policy and value functions
from the internal states.
SK PK VK F beta F of SK akin to the
joint policy and value network of alpha
zero representation function H of theta
initialize the root state S0 by encoding
past observations. It says no special
semantics beyond its support for future
predictions. Okay, so they're doing
something a little different here.
Um, it looks like the policy is not a
recurrent
function, but the dynamics function
There probably several ways you could
implement
this given such a model it is hang
on it mirror let's
see r uh g theta is a recurrent process
rk= g theta SKUS 1 AK that computes at
each hypothetical step K and immediate
reward RK in internal state SK. It
mirrors the structure of an MDP model
that computes the expected reward and
state transition for a given state and
action. However, unlike traditional
approaches to model based RL, this
internal state SK has no semantics of
environment state attached to it. It is
simply the hidden state of the overall
model and its sole purpose is to
accurately produce relevant future
quantities. Okay, so this is not
encoder. Uh this is not like an
autoenccode
thing. In this paper, the dynamics
function is represented
deterministically. That's fine. A
prediction function f theta computes the
policy and value functions from the
internal states akin to the joint policy
and value function network of alpha 0.
Oh, okay. So, I have this wrong then.
So, it's not the same shared network.
It's So, you have your normal
net doing its thing, right?
a And then this new
model, it's probably starts with
observation or something. Double check.
representation function initialize the
root state by encoding past
observations. So we can probably just
use
uh we can probably just
use this embedding here,
right? So this can be
s S hat or whatever and then we make a
new dynamics function which is another
LSTM.
is and this this has to
predict action.
value? I mean, the simplest version of
this would just
be action
And uh what's it? This just predicts
action and
reward.
A1 R1
These have to get rolled ahead. So this
is actually like
two. Oh, there's just no action in this
one, I guess.
Okay. So,
regardless, this starts to get
like
right. So you just have this separate
network.
And this one's going to just be
similarly like the LSTM that we have,
right?
a little simpler even because it's just
the
Given such a model, it's possible to
search over hypothetical f future
trajectories A1 through OK AK given past
observations 01 through
OT. For example, a naive search could
simply select the case action sequence
that maximizes the value function. More
generally, we may apply any MDP planning
algorithm to the internal rewards and
state space induced by the dynamics
function. Specifically, we use an MCTS
algorithm similar to alpha zero search
generalized to allow for single agent
domains and an intermediate to
rewards. The MCTS algorithm may be
viewed as a search policy and search
value function VT expectation mut plus
one yada
yada that selects both an action and
predicts cumulative reward given past
observations. At each internal node, it
makes use of the policy value function
reward estimate to produce
uh combines these values to using look
at search to produce improved policy pi
an improved value function v at the root
of the search tree. But
wait, approve
policy. Okay.
All parameters of the model are trained
jointly to accurately match the policy
value function and reward
prediction for every hypothetical step K
to three corresponding targets observed
after K actual time steps have
elapsed. The first objective is to
minimize the error between the actions
predicted by the policy and by the
search policy.
Also like alpha zero value targets are
generated by playing out the
game or MTP using the search policy.
However, unlike Alpha Zero, we allow for
long
episodes. It's
fine. Second objective is to minimize
error between the value function and the
value target. Third objective is to
minimize error between the predicted
immediate reward and observed immediate
re
It looks ahead. K equals 5 hypothetical
steps.
Hey Cash, I'm doing well. We're doing
um model based RL stuff today.
Okay. So, whatever. They have a fancy
ass tree thing.
So, the one thing I didn't get from the
blog post
was Where's this?
M0 can repeatedly use its learn model to
improve
planning. Yeah, that's
works. M0
reanalyze. They have this as
worse. Okay, we can potentially ignore
that. Oh no, cuz it's 200
mil. But that is a variant.
So I think that we can kind of start
with just like get a dynamics model, use
it, see if it does anything,
right? Yeah, I think we can start with
something like
this. This we can definitely implement
today. The other stuff is like it's
going to be tricky to figure out how to
make that stuff fast. This is like I
think we can do this batched, right?
We should be able to do this
back, which should be pretty
easy. Yeah. Okay.
I think we just got to start coding
this. I think I've got like enough of a
an idea on how to like get started and
we got to start on this because this is
going to be pretty
substantial. And
um I want to make sure that we get the
best chance we can at actually getting
it to work
today because I I only really want to
allocate today to seeing if model base
does anything.
I was messing with a bunch of stuff
here, right?
Yeah. Easiest way to start on this is
going to
be does this get added to the LSTM
wrapper? No, it doesn't. Right.
This does need to be a separate model, I
believe. Can just put it in the top for
now.
This needs to
be LSTM cell,
right? This kind of needs to be both.
Okay, we need to steal the trick that we
did from
here, which is like this.
action embedding
works. And then you need an action prod
and a reward
So this takes an action I believe is all
it takes.
We can actually do the whole search
inside of this. Now that I'm thinking
about it, right, we could do the whole
search inside this
So
here you teach your forceet,
right? So it's literally then just going
to be like
forward. And then again the state is
just the input state. So this is totally
fine.
reward. And then you train this
thing with the actual logic and the
actual
reward. Okay, that's actually pretty
easy. That's pretty easy. Um, should
this technically
Should this technically work
with I think that this actually
technically should work like this even
like this should not crash training. And
then what you do here is you add the
loop here which is your like search
whatever search algorithm it just runs
over this. I think that's how it would
work. Yeah, that's how it would work.
So, I think that this is pretty much the
only code you need with this.
Um, I could add the sampling into here
to make it a little
this. You don't need to even know the
reward here. So, it's just action log
prop.
I think you only need to know action
from
this. Okay. And so now you have your
policy
here which
is computing logits and
values and you need to give
it it needs the embeddings doesn't it?
It needs like the initial embedding or
what does it need?
Yeah, it needs the initial embedding of
observation
uh to
be to have the first state. I
guess you could technically learn this.
You could technically learn this, but I
think it would be
harder because you're only learning it
on this one state here. So I think you
just want to share the logits on
this.
So I think then we just do like
statebatch like state.bed or something.
That's not a full LSTM state though.
Hang
on. You need to have a hidden end of
cell state for this.
That's kind of awkward. You could use a
GRU. Doesn't a GRU have one
state. Yeah, GRU has one stage. So, you
could technically do
And then you'll have to adjust these
weights, but no big deal. Okay.
here. You still need log prop, don't
you?
something like
this. Okay. And then now you would still
have to train
it. You still have to train it.
All this, all this stuff
works like before.
and then mu0 gives you what logit value
as
zero. This gets batchactions which is
good and state.bed
right? Yeah, it gets the first
embedding. So in order to give it
state.bed, state.inbed should just
be batch
time
state.bed equals
hidden
zero. Uh and then that should be that
should be a dot detach, shouldn't it?
Yeah, that should be did
cache. We don't want to train through
that. I would hope. Maybe. We'll
see. And then you just have this, right?
Which is
like move zero actions.
thing. Do not need entropy for this
thing.
Hang on. Do you train this thing? You
probably just train this thing to like
match actions of original policy or
something, right?
minimize error between actions predicted
by the policy and the search policy.
Um, I'm trying to think how we want to
train this thing.
kind of just the way that we are right
now, right?
Oh, wait. Does the policy even do
anything in this setup?
Because I don't know if the policy even
does anything in this setup.
There kind of is
no other policy.
Oh, wait. No, you're just you're
learning. Okay, I'm done. Hang on. I
just have this thing in my head wrong.
Um, yeah, it's not like an auxiliary
thing. This is a replacement for the
model. Okay,
so in this
case, and they made it recurrent for a
different reason.
uh from what we I was thinking of as
well. Let me go back to drawing board
here a little bit.
This seems like it should be compatible.
Actually, this seems like they should be
compatible. So, like what they're saying
here, right, is if you normally if you
just have your policy that like takes in
observation, right? And this thing is
going to
output
action. They say, "Hey, why don't you
just output
uh
reward and
state?" And then this can
go, you take your reward and your
So you need an ops encoder,
right? So ops goes in
a
reward and like value or
whatever. And
then they also want you to predict
state. Well, this is a recurrent model.
So this will just give you the next
state, right?
here and this keeps roll. So this works.
So now I guess the the thing that I'm
getting hung up on here, right, is that
they added recurrence here to implement
their algorithm on top of a
non-recurrent
policy. So I need to now think of how
this would work on top of a recurrent
policy.
different? I mean, the only thing that's
wacko here is
that the obs goes in here as the hidden
state,
right? But does that matter?
Oh, it does matter because I need to be
able to put OBS in as well. Okay, shoot.
Um,
I mean, I could technically do it this
way for
now. This would be an easier way to
start.
This would be a a way easier way to
start on
this and then it's not really recurrent
in the same
way.
So you would still train it kind of like
a recurrent net though.
here. I don't think you can put OBS in
as this date like this. It'll mess up
the way that you train an
here. OBS concatenated with actions at
least.
Actually, this is kind of the
simplest
possible way to do it, right? Hang on.
If I literally
just So this is your
standard RNN, right? So you have
S0, OBS, you have
actions, right? And you have OBS come in
at every step. So I can put actions in
here. That's no problem. This is
T+1. And then all you do here, so you
can like use this as a normal
LSTM
model, but then you can also use this
uh during inference.
Maybe I guess you have to train it on
two different objectives, which is a
little
weird, but you could actually just take
the output state
here. Well, LSTM has two states. There's
a hidden state and a cell state. So you
could take like the extra state here and
put it in as
obs. I think that actually
works. So then you save the because the
LSTM has two states, right? So you save
one
state of the
two to just be arbitrary whatever it
wants to be and the other one gets
constrained that it has to represent the
embedding of the obs I
obs doable I
think is this insane or is this like a
pretty reasonable able way to do
something model basedesque on top of
uh an already existing recurrent
model cuz this this would let you just
continue like rolling it out as
well. Okay, let's try this and see how
far we
get before I get hung up on something
else. So, we don't need
Think we don't need the GRD or anything
in this case then do
we just need to
add we just need to add actions to the
signature There.
ops.
Okay, it's a little
tricky. Think we can do this though?
the state gets
that juices everything that you
need and then this thing is going to
output just going to output logic and
value Right? Even need to predict
anything else. It doesn't.
Yeah, I see such a simpler way to do
this now with this. Okay. Um, we're
going
I just I see a way better way how the
how we can do it like this now. It's way
easier.
buffer.
Okay. So now we have
actions state has this
Default we'll
have action encoder
So now we have action
encoder then encode observations.
works. Here's the restroom real quick
and then we keep implementing. Be right
back.
now. All we should need to do is add
this
state? It's literally in here already.
Action equals
bash.actions. I just haven't been using
heck. Oh, I think you need to uh to
reshape the actions then as well, don't
you? Yeah. Yeah. So, Ford train needs to
do
But that's it though. It just needs to
flatten. That's fine.
terminal. Okay, that actually does
train. Seems
This should be like same or better perf
than before as well because
um this is literally the same thing just
with action embedding. This is the first
step and then we'll add one auxiliary
loss and see if it screws up training
and then literally from that we should
be able to have a model based
thing. That should literally be all it
takes.
This is not training anywhere near
quickly
enough. I
think I don't know what I could have
possibly
broken. Hang on. It's possible I hadn't
checked the breakout config lately.
Okay, these must not be getting passed
correctly then because
um yeah, this works and the other one
there? There's Yeah, there's an off by
one.
There we go. So that actually
matters. It learns uh to condition quite
heavily on that. That looks like
Oh, that's really good, isn't
it? Hang on. That's better than we had
before by a
lot. Okay, maybe I've just been dumb not
bothering making an action encoder. That
actually looks like it really freaking
helps, doesn't
it? Holy
Yeah. Okay. So, at least we're going to
definitely guaranteed for sure get one
good thing today, right? I'm pretty damn
sure. We'll uh we'll run a double check
since this was so useful.
Okay, there is some instability jank
going on it looks like,
buffer. Yeah, we expect that's the
experience buffer bug.
Oh, actually interesting. Is it?
Um, no. This is more aggressive than
before. Maybe it is the
curve.
H. Well, that learns way faster than it
used to. So, something got better.
But, okay. Action encoding doesn't
actually help. It's just the whole thing
must have gotten better. That's weird.
Unless I uh didn't check out the branch
or
it. Okay, that's fine then.
It would be kind of weird if it helped
that much. Um, but now we have this. We
can
do some stuff with
this. Next thing is going to be
additional loss on LSTM.
Let me go remind
which. It's the hidden state
H that we
need. So this needs to be in forward
train.
dot. What format do we want it
in? You probably want it
this and then LSTMH is going to have to
be normed towards that.
And that would be done
right like hereish
right? length
one. This needs to return
full. We're going to have a problem if
this doesn't return us full
uh full
data. No, it
does. It returns the full thing. So, why
aren't we getting it?
Oh, that's layer. It's one
layer. That's totally
fine. Is that right? It's one
No, hang on. That doesn't make sense,
right?
Oh, it only gives you the final hidden
state. [ __ ]
Wait, isn't this the one that we want
anyways though?
If I just do uh if I just train like a
layer or
two that
projects instead have to train something
that projects this.
Okay, that's not bad.
thing? 64. I think 64 is the time,
right? 64 is the time.
This doesn't have to be recurrent, I
guess.
Okay, you have a world model in
here. Uh, it seems like the loss is
exploding, but you have
it. Yeah, the loss is completely
freaking exploding.
Technically, these don't have to be
detached.
right now. It is very good at predicting
next
state. Does it still
train? Bit slower, but it
does. Is it even
slower? 30 mil per
much. And you get a good world model
loss.
So, uh let's commit this
Technically, you don't even need to have
a network here,
right? I think this probably messes it
up though.
Actually, let's log this
one. Be curious to see how this stacks
up because now you're just saying that
the output should be next state, right?
And then it should be really really easy
from next state to predict um or
encoding of next state, which should be
very easy to predict reward from because
you can just see whether you broke a
brick, I guess.
curve. So, this objective doesn't seem
like it hurt
anything. Did I do this right? Is it
really this
easy? I mean, I guess it wouldn't be
that surprising
like predicting the next state like that
is a good thing to predict generally,
right? So, I think we kind of just get
world model for free
then with this setup. Right.
next state. Unless I did something wrong
here,
but let's just make sure that these are
different. I mean, they'd have to be
different though,
tensors.
Okay, so um like
technically we can just do mu0 in the
forward pass now, can't
we? It's just use the world model to try
to find better actions, right?
like we can do any sort of search that
we want now, right? Isn't that that's
the whole
point? Where's
it? What are you implementing? Uh
something that's pretty close to mu0.
I'm just trying to see like what's the
easiest way I can get some sort of world
modeling based thing into puffer where I
can like crank up compute in order to
get more sample efficiency or leave it
at base and get like the same result
that puffer gets right now.
So, so far all I had to do was
uh I make the encoder action
conditional. So, it gets to see the
action taking with taken which you need
in order to predict next state, right?
And then I just added a loss between the
output of the recurrent cell which is
like your intermediate hidden state and
the embedding of the next state both of
which are
differentiable. m0 should be strong on
breakout. I'm just using this as like a
trivial quick test m to make sure I
don't break anything. Um like no
technically I could implement it all
correctly and it would be the same. I
just want to make sure I don't
catastrophically fail on breakout as a
result of what I'm doing. I have lots of
other test
MS but theoretically I mean it should do
a little better once you do uh the
search
component. Okay. So encode
observations good
actions goes right
here. It's usually like this, right? OBS
embed
hidden. So, this hidden is the world
model target now, right?
So, can I not just like write a loop
here? I should be able to just write a
loop here.
You need to select the action for
this. This is the one tricky
thing. You need to select the action for
this. So you start with
like args embed
hidden and then you do
like
obsed equals
rake obs. in
bed. This takes like ops
embed STM
state. You need a rig LSTM state as
well. I
believe. So the hidden cell or the cells
which one of these is trained to
be it's the hidden that's trained to be
the next
obsed and I think the only thing that's
missing here is the action prediction,
right?
Because then what we would do is we'd be
able to figure out which of these we
actually want to use if we had the
reward
prediction. Oh no, we also need the
action
Yeah, I messed up the action embedding
here because it's predicting right now.
It's predicting the entire embedding. It
needs to predict the embedding without
the action
component because then the idea here,
right, is that you have to
run you run the decoder on this thing,
right?
Get out of here.
Bot time is it also 10:26. So I'm going
to go for uh breakfast/brunch
soon. Get rid of this bot.
This is just going to be false for now.
We'll think about this
after. Okay. So, you sample logits, you
get your act, your log prop, and then
the idea is that this needs to get
combined with OBS embedding. But I don't
have that right yet, right?
And then this will get used to select
which hidden state you
use. And actually what we should do is
we should leave these as hidden in LSTM
state. And I should just
do
We don't need the values for now.
Technically, we
could we actually technically could just
bootstrap from this
Well, let me see if I can like catch
something real quick that would like do
that we would expect to kind of do
something.
You kind of need to know like the
best delta
Hey, I think it makes sense to just
predict rewards,
I think it's just something like this
honestly. Right. We have to train that
uh that value head. Hang
on. I think that's like all there is to
mu to like doing something mu zero. Like
obviously that's not like the full MCTS,
but that's decent.
Um, that should do something
maybe just do a bunch of trials.
Um, oh, we still have to fix the action
head. I think I'm going to have to do
that after breakfast. But let's add the
reward loss real quick because that can
just go by right by the value
loss. It's like super basic.
Um, you do actually have to output the
reward though.
Shoot. I guess I just add it to state or
something.
predict? I have to do the same thing,
right?
Did you have to install a special
version of Triton? No, I
didn't. Hey, Spencer. I'm doing world
model stuff today. I'm seeing if I can
get us like anything crazy to work. I
think it's worth a day.
I can get you another box if you need to
play with one
though. Like I can get you access to
one. I have one I'm probably not going
to use today. I don't know what you're
working on.
normal box works just fine. I see. Yep.
Yeah. 5090 steps a pain in the
ass. We're definitely going to make sure
that we don't have that problem with 40
boxes when we order them.
Or maybe this does make sense to just
put in the
LSTM. Yeah, I got to like I'm hungry
though. I got to go get breakfast and
stuff. And uh I will be back soon. Uh
I'm just going to get some food real
quick and then we're going to do this
all day long. We're gonna see if we can
get some world model based thing to do a
thing in Puffer. Uh, thanks folks for
watching. If you're interested in this
stuff, puffer.ai for all the things. We
are two stars off of this rounding up to
2K. So, please just go ahead and star
Puffer. Helps us out a lot. And you can
join the discord.